python python-modules module - closes #668 (#669)
bob-crutchley/courseware: topics/python/modules/python-modules/README.md

# Modules

<!--TOC_START-->
## Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Modules in Python](#modules-in-python)
- [Using multiple modules](#using-multiple-modules)
- [Creating your own modules](#creating-your-own-modules)
- [Tutorial](#tutorial)
- [Exercises](#exercises)

<!--TOC_END-->
## Overview

In this module we will cover the different `in built modules` that `python` has and how to use them as well as creating your own module.

## Modules in Python

There are many procedures and functions built into Python without any prerequisites needed. A simple example is `print`.

Modules ( or `Libraries`) are collections of extra, pre-written functions and procedures. 
These are available to use, but we need to import them into our code at the start.
Once imported, we use `module.procedure(parameter)`, as follows.

```python
import math

number = float(input("Enter a number:"))
answer = math.sqrt(number)

print(answer)
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
This piece of code is importing the `math` module, then using the `sqrt` function to find the square root of the number the user enters. Then it prints the answer.
```

## Using multiple modules

We are not limited to one module.
If we need to we can use `multiple modules` within one Python file.
For example:

```python
import math
import random

def multiply_pi():
    return random.randint(1,10) * math.pi

for i in range(5):
    print(multiply_pi())
```

This program is defining a function that returns a random integer between `1` and `10` multiplied by `pi`.
It then, using a for loop, calls the function 5 times to `print` five random multiples of `pi`.

## Creating your own modules

You can create your own modules and import them into another program.

## Tutorial

Create a 2 new python files, `boss.py` and `app.py`.
Make sure they are saved in the same folder.
With them containing the following:

```python
# In boss.py
def good_boss(name):
    print(name + " is a good boss!")

def bad_boss(name):
    print(name + " is a bad boss!")

def not_a_boss(name):
    print(name + " is not even a boss")
```

```python
# In app.py
import boss

> bad_boss("Bill Steves")

Author: ```suggestion
boss.bad_boss("Bill Steves")
```

```

This should return "Bill Steves is a bad boss!"

## Exercises

> Create 2 new python files. In one file, write functions that generate 2 numbers between 1 and 6. Make this a module called `dice`.

Reviewer: This doesn't make sense to me. Do you want two functions that generate a number each?

> Create 2 new python files. In one file, write functions that generate 2 numbers between 1 and 6. Make this a module called `dice`.

Author: ```suggestion
Create 2 new python files. In one file, write a function that will generate a number between 1 and 6. Make this a module called `dice`.
```

> In the second file, use the `dice` module to 'throw' the dice.

Author: ```suggestion
In the second file, use the `dice` module to simulate throwing 2 dice and return the values you get from the dice.
```
